---
author: FrankSodreLima
title: The loneliness of being at the top
date: Mon October 13, 2025
description: This is the story that made me realize being considered the best isn't always a good thing. 
---

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://api.deepai.org/job-view-file/5644a6a1-7ac5-4144-8179-1f986168f0c6/outputs/output.jpg" alt="a man walking in a dark place with a moonlight" />
</p>

<span style="background-color: #425066;"><i>AI generated image</i></span>
<br>


I think it all started during the presentation of a yearly school project. It
wasn’t anything special, as usual, but the one evaluating us was someone
everyone in school said was one of the best. I wanted to be evaluated by him
because people have this need for approval, or something like that. Pretty
annoying — I liked it better when there was less of that.

Anyway, that’s just context. The important part is that I didn’t leave with the
grade I expected — or rather, the one others expected from me. A friend came up
to me and said the grades were already out. I, confident, believed I had done
well, but then he told me I got a B. At that moment I was like, “wait, a B is
good, right? Or not?” I looked at him, and he didn’t seem happy to say it.
Adding the fact that he had gotten a higher grade made me realize a B wasn’t
that good after all.

I exploded. I went to ask the students who were evaluating that day (because
there were no teachers) what had happened. They hadn’t complained about my
presentation; I had answered everything — I didn’t get it. They basically said
a B was the highest grade I could’ve gotten.

I complained to the teacher and blamed them, calling them incompetent. I truly
believed they didn’t have the ability to evaluate me. Today I regret that — and
at the same time, I don’t.

Those words, and a few conversations with friends who could see the other side
of the story, made me realize I was being arrogant. I reflected and noticed I
didn’t even know if a B was a good grade or not — maybe because of my lack of
awareness, or because I simply thought it was.

With all that, I realized I’m nothing — something I always reminded myself of
but slowly forgot. That happened because of the people around me and some life
choices, like speaking more in public. People saw me as the best, and some even
competed with me. Those people eventually gave up, and now it feels like I have
an answer for everything. And I won’t lie — I also encouraged that behavior,
that strange dependence.

I always saw everyone as a threat — not in a bad way, but because anyone can
grow, and brilliance can come from anywhere. Whenever I saw someone improving,
I would push myself several times harder to catch up. Today, with everyone
being content, there’s no more competition — and I stopped trying too. I’ve
always heard we should compare ourselves to who we were yesterday, but I’ve
never been like that, and I don’t know when I’ll learn to be.

It’s sad to see how far I’ve fallen without noticing. Until I solve this “me
today vs. me yesterday” problem, I’ll need to be around strong people, learn
their abilities and limits — only then will I be able to surpass them.

Something important to say is that we adapt our behavior to our environment. In
my case, I now realize most people around me are content with their skills.
Back in the first year, the same group just wanted to improve. Now it’s not
like that anymore. I think it’s because two people left. For me, especially one
of them — who, I now see, was always the best among us. He probably felt the
same way I do now, but to me, he was motivation. Too bad it wasn’t mutual.

One day, someone asked me if I wanted to be the best of all. I don’t remember
what I said, but I know that day I didn’t have an answer. Today I can say it
clearly: no. If I’m the best, how can I evolve? The feeling of improvement is
one of the best there is. It’s the classic: the journey is better than the
destination (maybe I think that way because I’m young).

Am I the best? No. Don’t put that in your head — and if you ever forget, go
watch a bunch of Satoru Gojo edits.
